Various characteristics of educational technology make it an effective 
teaching and learning tool for students with multiple exceptionalities
 
 
 
Both participants of this study spoke very highly of various characteristics of 
classroom
 
technology
 
that renders it effective for students with multiple exceptionalities. 
In particular, three characteristics that were emphasized include the 
interactivity of the touchscreen interface, predictability, and versatility of 
technological tools. Altogether, th
ese features make certain classroom 
technologies effective tools to support students with multiple exceptionalities.
 
 
Interactivity of touch screen interface
 
 
Touch screen devices that were used by both participants collectively included 
the iPad, Promethe
an Board, and ActivTable. All three devices are touch 
screen, which enables either a single user or multiple users to interact with the 
interface. As described by Campigotto, McEwen, and Demmans Epp (2013), 
the use of sight and sound reinforcement as well 
as haptic feedback provide a 
sensory aspect and dimension that pen and paper do not. As a result, students 

following excerpt: The demands of touching the screen on the inter
active 
white board seem to be easier to handle for some students than the demands of 
pulling Velcro and moving laminated things around. So I can do all the same 
things that I was doing with paper, but on the board. However, McEwen 
(2014) outlines that the 
touch screen interface can be a source of many 
difficulties for students with severe fine motor constraints. Therefore, 
educators should consider this design constraint when using commercially 
available technologies such as these for students with motor pl
anning 
difficulties. With this constraint aside  however, the interactivity of the touch 
screen interface of many classroom devices such as the iPad, Promethean 
Board, and ActivTable can be effective for certain students.
 
 
Predictability
 
 
In addition to 
the interactivity afforded by touch screen devices, participants 
also favoured the predictability of most educational technologies. Although all 
students benefit from structure and predictability at school, students with 
exceptionalities may react more str
ongly than their peers when faced with an 



 

 
things that we think contributes to the success of technology in the classroom, 
is the predictability of the technology, of the responses, of the wait times, of 
all of it.
 
 
And 

 

 
Participants demonstrated the ability of educational technologies to offer
 
predictability for students w
ith multiple exceptionalities. As mentioned by  Jill 
the predictability of technological features is a valuable characteristic for 
students of this population.
 
 
Versatility
 
 
Another favourable characteristic of educational technology in the special 
educati
on classroom was the ability of teachers to use these devices for 
multiple instructional purposes. Participants shared how the versatility of 
educational technology offers It gives you the balance to either have a passive 
class, where I am the teacher pres
enting a lesson using the board for visual 
reinforcement, or active participation, where the students are required to come 
up and interact either with each other on the board or just with the board, or 
with me and the board.
 
 

active whiteboard provides teachers with several 
options for use. It provides the flexibility to facilitate versatile, interactive 
activities by giving anyone in the classroom the ability to control. Educational 
technology tools such as the interactive whi
teboard can be used to facilitate 
whole
-
group or small
-
group instruction, assessment, collaborative learning, or 
personalized instruction.
 
