Technology in Special Education
 
Students with multiple exceptionalities can greatly benefit from using 
technology in the special education classroom. The literature for technology in 
special education emphasizes Assistive Technology, as well as other 
modern 
educational technologies that are used for students with exceptionalities.
 
 
Assistive Technology
 
 
The Individuals with Disabilities Education Act defines assistive technology 

comm
ercially off the shelf, modified, or customized, that is used to increase, 

(Mittler, 2007). More generally, an assistive technology device must increase, 
maintain, or improve fu
nctional capabilities of a child with an exceptionality 
(Dell, Newton, & Petroff, 2008). A wide variety of assistive technologies are 
available to support student learning: including screen readers, speech
-
to
-
text 
software, and augmentative communication s
ystems. A key determinant
 
for effective assistive technology use is finding a
n appropriate match between 
the 

y, and the task. 
Therefore, the 
process of finding the right tool may require a trial and err
or 
approach (OTF, 2014).
 
 
According to a report from the Toronto District School Board, the majority of
 
principals report that assistive technologies have produced m
ajor benefits for 
their special 
education students (Ontario Ministry of Education, 
2013). 
 
 
However, they identify a 
number of barriers to access, including cost, limits of 
eq
uipment bandwidth, and training 
for teachers and Educational Assistants to 

 
 
Modern Educational Technology for Students with Excepti
onalities
 
 
While assistive technology has had a long
-
standing discourse for its 
effectiveness in special education, studies are beginning to show that 
commercially available digital technologies can have a positive impact on 
students with exceptionalities 
(Dell, Newton, & Petroff, 2008). Application 
developers, device manufacturers, and the media make bold claims that 
devices such as handheld touchscreen tablets can be effectively used in the 
instruction of students with exceptionalities (Campigotto, McEwen
, & 
Demmans Epp, 2013). However their use in both the regular and special 
education classrooms have been under
-
investigated. Therefore, studies of 
mainstream, commercially available digital technologies and applications such 
as the iPad and interactive whi
teboard have only begun. In a recent study by 
McEwen (2014) for instance, students with ASD made significant gains in 
communication skills and social interactivity with the use of handheld iPod 
Touch devices.
 
