-- First published in the Proceedings of the 7th IBIMA Conf
erence Internet & Information Systems in the Digital Age, 
14-16 December, 2006, Brescia, Italy -- 
 Enterprise Architecture Ben
efits: Perceptions from Literature and Practice  Eetu Niemi, University of Jyväskylä, Finland, eetu.niemi@titu.jyu.fi 
 Abstract 
Enterprise Architecture (EA) is considered a means 
for acquiring a multitude of benefits in 

organizations by most academic literature and 
practitioners alike. However, academic research 
has almost omitted the domain of EA benefits and 

value realization, and thus more research on the 
subject is needed. This paper describes a study 
which aims to chart the benefits of EA by a 

comprehensive literature review and a focus group 
interview of practitioners. As a result, a 
categorization of the EA benefits is composed and 

analyzed. 
1. Introduction 
Enterprise Architecture 
(EA) includes all the 
models needed in managing and developing an 

organization, and takes a holistic view of its 
business processes, information systems and 
technological infrastructur
e [see e.g. 1-3]. It has 
become one of the major interests of both business 
and academia. It is claimed to provide a vehicle for 
aligning and integrating strategy, people, business 

and technology, and enabling an agile enterprise Œ 
continually evolving within the ever-changing 
environment [see e.g. 4, 5]. 

 However, investments need to be made in 
organizational, cultural and technical infrastructure 

to support the EA program [see e.g. 2] and be 
justified by demonstrating the positive effects of 
EA to key stakeholders [see e.g. 5]. Still, presenting 

the benefits of EA is difficult since measuring its 
effects comprehensively is demanding and the 
architecture itself is cons
tantly changing [5]. 
Academic research has almost omitted the subject 
of EA benefit and value realization, focusing 
instead mostly on EA frameworks [see e.g. 6-8], 

and EA development methods and tools [see e.g. 9-
11]. Recently, a few contributions have been made 
in the domain of EA evaluation [see e.g. 5, 12-16]. 

However, the evaluation and measurement Œ and 
even the definition of Œ the benefits and value of 
EA seem so far to have escaped the attention of 

academic research. 
 Nevertheless, the need for defining the potential 

benefits of EA is eviden
t Œ it might even be the 
prerequisite for the selection of objectives for an 
EA program, measuring the 
realized benefits and 
value of EA, and thus providing a rationale for key 
stakeholder support and investments in EA [see e.g. 
17]. Therefore, this study ai
ms to chart the benefits 
of EA and EA work (EA planning, development 
and management) by an extensive literature review 
and a focus group interview of practitioners. 

 This paper is organized as follows. In the next 
section, the research method is described. In Section 

3, the literature on EA benefits is discussed. In 
Section 4, the benefits of EA are categorized and in 
Section 5, the categorization is analyzed. Section 6 

includes a discussion of the study™s contribution and 
agenda for further research. Finally, Section 7 
concludes the paper.      
2. Research Method 
To identify the benefits of EA, the following steps 
were conducted.  
 
1. Literature review
. Literature on EA and 
architectures in general was charted for references of 
benefits using both academic and general search 

engines on the Internet, using keywords such as 
benefit, objective, value and evaluation with terms 
enterprise architecture a
nd architecture. Moreover, 
additional literature was found by studying the 
references sections of the found papers. Literature by 
both academia and practitioners was included in the 

review for a more diverse view of benefits. Academic 
journal articles and conference papers, magazine 
articles, books, research reports by institutions, 

industry white papers, published government 
documents and electronic sources were reviewed, and 
the found EA benefits listed. Subsequently, closely 

related benefits were combined for a more compact 
list of benefits by the discretion of the author. Based 
on reviewing the literature, a preliminary list of 27 

EA benefits was composed. 
 2. Focus group interview on the literature review 
results. A focus group interview [see e.g. 18] of 
seven practitioners from five Finnish or international 
organizations, either information and communication 

technology (ICT) users or service providers, was 
organized in August 2006. The organizations were 
either independent companies, or divisions, 

subsidiaries or other parts of domestic or global 
enterprises. Furthermore, they represented different 
industries and employed from 14 to several thousand 

people. All of the organizations were conducting EA 
work and thus employed specialists who could 
contribute to the study. Each organization provided 

one or two persons to the interview. In four of the 
organizations, the interviewees had an EA-level 
viewpoint of the enterprise
, and in one, they were 
more focused on the system architecture level. The 
objectives of the interview were 1) to review the 
literature review results, and 2) to collect additional, 

experience-based information. The interview was 
carried out in a group, b
ecause group influence was 
thought to stimulate the discussion. However, 

confidential information may thus have remained 
undisclosed. The interview was moderated by one 
researcher, while the other two took notes. In 
-- First published in the Proceedings of the 7th IBIMA C
onference Internet & Information Systems in the Digital 
Age, 14-16 December, 20
06, Brescia, Italy -- 
 addition to the notes taken, the interview was also 
audio-recorded. 
 
3. Composing a categorization of the EA benefits
.  The results from the literature review and the focus 
group interview were analyzed and combined into a 

categorization of the EA benefits. 
3. Literature on EA Benefits 
Even though the number of academic research 
papers exclusive on the benefits of EA is very low, 

a greater number of stud
ies mention several EA 
benefits or objectives. Generally, the benefits are 
not the main topic of the papers. On the contrary, 

they are typically briefly disclosed in the 
introduction section. Journal articles (7) and 
industry white papers (8) seem to dominate the 

area, added with a number 
of conference papers (5) 
and government documents (4), such as EA 
evaluation frameworks and reports. Moreover, a 

few research reports (3) by various institutions, 
books (2), magazine articles (2) and electronic 
sources (1) exist. 

 While the literature focuses on listing a multitude 
of benefits, it does not clearly define and describe 

them. Furthermore, there does not seem to be an 
established model for classifying the benefits in the 
EA context, despite some categorizations have been 

proposed [see e.g. 5, 19, 20]. Moreover, the 
literature does not genera
lly differentiate between 
benefits at different levels of abstraction; 

particularly, between abst
ract, high-level benefits 
such as integration or agility of an enterprise [see 
e.g. 4, 21], and more concrete, lower-level benefits 

such as shortened cycle times or cost savings [see 
e.g. 5, 19]. Additionally, it does not commonly 
distinguish between the bene
fits, the characteristics 
of EA, and the areas of EA work from which the 
benefits could be gained. For example, 
standardization and integration activities may lead 

to cost savings [see e.g. 22], and all of these are 
mentioned as EA benefits [see e.g. 14, 23]. 
Furthermore, the causes, effects and other 

relationships between various EA benefits, EA 
characteristics and EA work activities are not 
clearly defined in the literature. 

  In addition to the deficiencies mentioned above, the 
literature does not normally provide academic 

research results of any kind to quantify the argued 
benefits or value of EA, 
with the exceptions of a 
few case studies [see e.g. 
17, 24] and survey-based 
studies [see e.g. 19, 25, 26]. Even these provide 
mainly qualitative information of the gained 
benefits. While this kind of EA research is arguably 

carried out in the industry, the majority of the 
results do not become published. 
4. Categorization of the EA Benefits 
This section presents a categorization of the EA 
benefits identified in the literature review and the 
focus group interview. First, the benefits and their 
representative sources are listed on Table 1. Second, 
the benefits are categorized according to a 

Information Systems (IS) be
nefit classification model 
[27]. The seven most cited benefits and the benefit 
categorization are analyzed in the next section. 

 The focus group generally agreed with the 
preliminary list of EA benefits, and considered 

several of them especially important in their work. 
These benefits are listed on Table 1 as a reference 
number 45. Considering the challenges mentioned in 

the previous section, a sufficient magnitude of 
benefits was preserved to represent as much of the 
whole range of identified benefits as possible. 

However, a number of closely related benefits were 
combined to maintain clarity. 
 
As can be seen from Table 1, the range of benefits is 
extensive and without proper categorization, it is 
difficult to comprehend. For this reason, a IS benefit 

classification model [27] wa
s selected and applied to 
the domain of EA. The basis for selecting this model 
was its clarity, applicability and suitability: it is 

reasonable to categorize the 
EA benefits on the basis 
of their measurability and the potential to attribute 
them to EA or EA work. 

 The horizontal axis of the model distinguishes 
between quantifiable and non-quantifiable benefits, 

and the vertical axis between benefits that can be 
accounted to EA or EA work, and those that 
significantly depend on other organizational or 

environmental factors as well. In the model, the 
benefits are categorized into the following categories: 
 
Hard benefits
 can be objectively quantified (e.g. in 
monetary terms, time or other numeric values) and 
attributed to EA or EA work. They could be related 

to possible cost and cycle time reduction and 
economies of scale. Moreover, they could include 
increased standardization attained by utilizing the 

standards defined in EA, increased reuse of 
architectural models, descriptions and 
documentation, and increased interoperability 

between systems constructed according to EA. 
Hence, they can potentially be attributed to EA.  
 
Intangible benefits
 cannot be easily quantified, but 
they can be attributed to EA or EA work. These 
benefits can be realized, particularly, from the 

development and usage of architectural models and 
descriptions, leading to better insight of the enterprise 
and thus supporting e.g. decision making. 

 Indirect benefits
 can be measured in quantifiable 
terms, but cannot be attributed to EA or EA work. 

They are related, especially
, to an enterprise™s better 
position in the market, improved management and 
customer orientation, and more efficient business 

processes Œ factors that can be quantified by various 
metrics but only partially attributed to EA. 
 -- First published in the Proceedings of the 7th IBIMA C
onference Internet & Information Systems in the Digital 
Age, 14-16 December, 20
06, Brescia, Italy -- 
 Table 1: the identified benefits of EA  
Benefit [1] [3] [4] [5] [8] [12] [13] [14] [17] [19] [20] [21] [22] [23] [24] [25] [26] [28] [29] [30] [31] [32] [33] [34] [35] [36] [37] [38] [39] [40] [41] [42] [45] Evolutionary EA development 
& governance 
   X                      X    X   
Provides a holistic view of the 
enterprise 
X X X X    X  XX X X  X X   X X  X X  XXX
Improved alignment to 
business strategy 
   X   XX X  XX     XX    X X   XX  
Improved alignment with 

partners X   X    X  X X  X         X  X X     
Improved asset management 
   X    X      XX        X X        
Improved business processes         XX      X  X         X   
Improved business-IT 
alignment    X X    XXXX XX  X X X   X X    X XX
Improved change management
X X     XX   X   XXXXXXXX  X       XX
Improved communication  X  X    X XX XX   XXX     X      XX
Improved customer orientation
X     X XXX   X       X       X   
Improved decision making  X X  X         X  X  XX     X        
Improved innovation 
X   X X   XXX      X   X    X    X   
Improved management of IT 

investments X    X   X    XXXX XX  X      X X X 
Improved risk management    X X   X XX XXX   XXX  X  X    XX  
Improved staff management 
        X X XX             X X X X 
Improved strategic agility 
X  X X    XXXXX       X     X        
Increased economies of scale 
                  X        X X     
Increased efficiency 
   X  X      XXX X    XX           
Increased interoperability and 

integration 
  X  X XXX X XXXX   XXXXX           
Increased market value 
       X     X         X          
Increased quality 
     X       X    XX X     X X  X  
Increased reusability 
   X X X X  X XX      X    X X    XX 
Increased stability 
X                               XX
Increased standardization 
     XXX    XXX   XXX     X      X
Reduced complexity 
    X   X    X XXX X X   X        X
Reduced costs 
   X X X X XX XXX X   XXX   X  X X XX X
Shortened cycle times 
   X X X XXXX  X  X X  X   X  X X X   
 Strategic benefits
 are positive effects that are 
realized in the long run an
d are typically affected by 
a multitude of factors. Th
erefore, they generally 
cannot be objectively quantified or completely 

attributed to EA or EA 
work. These benefits may 
include, for example, increased stability of an 
enterprise in an environm
ent of constant change, 
better strategic agility, and improved alignment with 
business strategy. 
 
The benefits of EA were categorized into the model 
by using the author™s discretion (see Figure 1). For 
this reason, the categorization is merely meant to be 

suggestive of the potential types of the EA benefits. 
Because of this rather subjective nature of the 
categorization, the relative positions of the benefits 
inside the categories were 
not specified. Therefore, 
the order of benefits inside the categories is 
horizontally alphabetical. 
5. Analysis of the Categorization  
In this section, the seven most cited EA benefits are 
selected for discussion and analysis. Subsequently, 
the categorization of the 
benefits is analyzed. 
 
The most cited benefits from the literature and the 
focus group interview include 1) 
reduced costs
, 2) 
providing a holistic view of the enterprise
, 3) 
improved business-IT alignment
, 4) improved 
change management
, 5) improved risk management
, 6) improved interoperability and integration
, and 7) 
-- First published in the Proceedings of the 7th IBIMA C
onference Internet & Information Systems in the Digital 
Age, 14-16 December, 20
06, Brescia, Italy -- 
 shortened cycle times
. From these, 
reduced costs
 seem to be related to a great number of other 
benefits: the costs could be lowered by reducing 

duplication and overlappi
ng in technologies and 
processes, reusing components, integrating systems, 
increasing standardization, and rationalizing 

procurement [see e.g. 5, 14, 22, 23]. 
Shortened cycle 
times also seem to be related, at least, to reuse and 
standardization [see e.g. 14, 22]. Realizing these 

benefits, on the other hand
, can lead to increased 
efficiency [see e.g. 22]. 
 
Improved alignment
 between business and IT seem 
to be a vaguer concept,
 but is stated to be 
contributed at least by defining a common business 

vision by EA [see e.g. 14, 42] and performing 
governance over projects for EA compliance [see 
e.g. 31]. 
Integration and interoperability
 seem also 
to be related to alignment, and thus could be 
improved by increasing collaboration between 
organizational functions with the aid of integrated IT 

systems [see e.g. 4]. 
Change management
, on the 
other hand, could be improved by documenting the 
current state, the target state, and transition plans to 
EA [see e.g. 31, 42]. Moreover, EA documents 
could also be used for the improvement of 
risk 
management
, by e.g. providing a description of the 
current state for preparing an enterprise for 
unplanned changes [see e.g. 14], defining common 
standards, guidelines and principles that the IT 

organization can use for decision making, and 
providing information to projects for assuring EA 
compliance [see e.g. 31]. Finally, most of the 

benefits seem to be contributed by a
 holistic view of 
the enterprise
 that a high-quality EA can provide.  
 
Recent EA surveys [25, 26] from the industry, as 
well as the focus group interview results, also 
indicate that change management
, reduced IT costs
 and alignment between business and IT
 are among 
the most important EA-related concerns for 
practitioners. Moreover, providing a 
holistic view of 
the enterprise seems to be a self-evident benefit of 
EA in literature. However, 
managing the complexity 
of IT assets
 is considered equally important in the 
surveys and was also one 
of the concerns of the 
focus group, but was not among the top-10 most 
cited EA benefits in this study. 
  Fig 1. The EA benefits categorized according to the Giaglis et al. model 
Strategic
Intangible
Hard
Indirect
Attributableto EA
Measurable
Weakly
Strongly
Non-Quantifiable
Quantifiable
Provides
a holistic 
view of 

the enterprise 
EvolutionaryEA
development&

governance
Improved
alignment to 

business 

strategy
Improved
alignment

withpartners
Improvedasset
management
Improved
business

processes
Improved
business-IT

alignment
Improved
change
management
Improved
communication
Improved
customer

orientation
Improved
decision

making
Improved
innovation
Improved 
management of

IT investments 
Improvedrisk
management
Improvedstaff
management
Improved
strategic

agility
Increased
economies

of scale
Increased
efficiency
Increased
interoperability

and integration
Increased
marketvalue
Increased
quality
Increased
reusability
Increased
stability
Increased
standardization
Reduced
complexity
Reduced
costs
Shortened
cycletimes
-- First published in the Proceedings of the 7th IBIMA C
onference Internet & Information Systems in the Digital 
Age, 14-16 December, 20
06, Brescia, Italy -- 
 According to the categoriz
ation, the challenge of 
evaluating and measuring the benefits seems to be 
that most of the benefits are indirect or strategic Œ 

even if they can be clear
ly quantified, they are 
difficult to address to EA or EA work. Moreover, the 
relatively large amount of strategic benefits impedes 

the evaluation as well. Consequently, in the initial 
stages of EA maturity, applicable evaluation criteria 
and metrics for hard benefits could be developed for 

showing ﬁquick winsﬂ. In higher maturity levels 
however, metrics for other types of benefits should 
be developed as well to quantify the value of EA 

more comprehensively. Even the indirect and 
strategic benefits might include elements which 
could be evaluated and addressed to EA. 
6. Discussion 
This section includes a discussion of this study™s 
contribution to research and practitioners, limitations 
of the study, and agenda for further research. 

 Contributions to Research 
This study contributes to research in several ways. 
Firstly, it provides researchers with a perception of 

what benefits can be received from EA and EA 
work. Secondly, it provides one potential 
categorization for the benefits. Thirdly, the 

categorization can be used as a basis in determining 
what kind of evaluation criteria and metrics could be 
used in measuring the realization of the benefits.  

 Contributions to Practice 
Practitioners may use the results of this study to 
select a certain set of benef
its to act as objectives of 
their EA programs. Moreover, the research provides 
practitioners with a variety of potential EA benefits 
for rationalizing EA work initiation. Practitioners 

may also find the categorization useful in developing 
metrics for quantifying the benefits in later stages of 
EA work.  

 Although the benefits of EA could be used by 
practitioners to define a set of EA objectives to be 

pursued, the focus group advised that conducting EA 
work by merely aiming at 
the selected objectives 
could result in a failure, because factors external to 

the objectives (e.g. busine
ss environment changes 
and undisclosed business goals) may also have a 
considerable effect on 
EA work. Moreover, the 
interview showed that in enterprises initiating EA 
work, the risk of failure is greater and the benefits 
acquired cannot be clearly addressed to EA because 

of the less established position and influence of the 
EA program in the enterprise. 
 Limitations of the Research 
There are a few limitations in this study, which 
could impede generalizing the results. Firstly, EA 
benefits are organization-specific at least to some 

extent. There could be differences between 
enterprises depending on e.g. the geographical area, 
the enterprise type, the industry, the EA maturity, 
the size of enterprise and 
the EA program, and the 
market situation and position. Naturally, the 
selection of EA objectives and thus the direction of 

the EA program also have an
 effect on the benefits 
received. Secondly, the cat
egorization of the EA 
benefits is based only on the author™s discretion. 

Thirdly, the study is primarily based on the 
extensive literature review, supplemented only by a 
small amount of empirical data (the focus group 

interview). However, the 
literature review already 
provides a valuable contribution, which is 
strengthened by the validation and practical 

viewpoint of the focus group, and clarified by the 
categorization of the benefits. 
 Agenda for Further Research 
This study provides a number of important themes 
for further research. Firstly, the benefits itself should 
be unambiguously and consistently defined, and 
their categorization empiri
cally validated. Secondly, 
a valid and consistent model should be constructed 
to illuminate the relationships between EA benefits, 
EA characteristics and EA work activities on 

different levels of abstraction. Thirdly, metrics and 
evaluation criteria should be charted and developed 
for measuring the realization of the benefits. 

Fourthly, the benefits should be empirically 
quantified by applying these metrics and criteria to 
provide a rationale for adopting an EA approach or 
making further investments in EA. In the near 
future, we aim at identifying metrics and evaluation 

criteria for assessing EA value and the realization of 
the benefits. 
7. Conclusion 
In this paper, the benefits of EA were charted by an 
extensive literature review, supplemented by a focus 
group interview of practitioners. Subsequently, the 
benefits were categorized according to a IS benefit 

classification model [27]. Furthermore, seven of the 
most cited benefits and the categorization were 
analyzed. 
 It is worth noting that EA should be communicated 
effectively to realize the be
nefits [see e.g. 22]. Even 
then, EA does not guarantee long-term value 
because a multitude of factors affects the realization 
of benefits [see e.g. 43, 44]. Moreover, 
distinguishing the contribution of EA from all the 
potential factors affecting the realization of the 
benefits is a significant challenge. Naturally, the 

benefits identified in this study are only suggestive 
of what kind of value an EA could provide to an 
enterprise. Nevertheless, the results can be used by 

practitioners to build a business case for EA. On the 
other hand, enterprise decision-makers should note 
an opposite argument: EA should be seen as an 

asset, not an expense, and that the expenses are 
actually realized by not investing in EA [see e.g. 22, 
42]. 
-- First published in the Proceedings of the 7th IBIMA C
onference Internet & Information Systems in the Digital 
Age, 14-16 December, 20
06, Brescia, Italy -- 
 8. Acknowledgements This study was conducted as a part of an ongoing 
three-year research project focusing on quality 
management of enterprise and software 

architectures. It is orches
trated by the Information 
Technology Research Institute (ITRI) in the 
University of Jyväskylä, Finland, and funded by the 

Finnish Funding Agency for Technology and 
Innovation (TEKES) and the participating 
companies. I wish to than
k the companies for their 
collaboration, my colleagues Niina Hämäläinen and 
Tanja Ylimäki for their valuable contribution in 
conducting the research and reviewing the paper, 

and my supervisor, Assistant Professor Dr. Minna 
Koskinen for her advice and review of the paper. 
9. References 
[1] Jonkers, H., et al. 
"Enterprise architecture: 
Management tool and blueprint for the 

organization," 
Information Systems Frontiers
 (8:2), 
2006, pp. 63-66. 

 
[2] Kaisler, S. H., Armour, F., and Valivullah, M. 

"Enterprise Architecting: Critical Problems," in 

Proceedings of the 38th Hawaii International 

Conference on System Sciences (HICSS'05)
, Hawaii, USA, 2005. 

 
[3] de Boer, F. S., et al. "Change Impact Analysis of 

Enterprise Architectures," in 
Proceedings of the 
2005 IEEE International Conference on Information 
Reuse and Integration (IRI-2005)
, Las Vegas, USA, 
15-17 August, 2005. 

 
[4] Goethals, F., et al. "M
anagements and enterprise 
architecture click: The FAD(E)E framework," 

Information Systems Frontiers
 (8:2), 2006, pp. 67-
79. 

 
[5] Morganwalp, J. M. and Sage, A. P. "Enterprise 

Architecture Measures of Effectiveness," 

International Journal of Technology, Policy and 

Management
 (4:1), 2004, pp. 81-94. 
 
[6] Sowa, J. F. and Zachman, J. A. "Extending and 

Formalizing the Framework for Information Systems 

Architecture," 
IBM Systems Journal
 (31:3), 1992, 
pp. 590-616. 

 
[7] Greefhorst, D., Koning, H., and van Vliet, H. 

"The many faces of architectural descriptions," 

Information Systems Frontiers
 (8:2), 2006, pp. 103-
113. 

 
[8] The Open Group. The 
Open Group Architecture 
Framework version 8.1.1, Enterprise Edition 

(TOGAF 8.1.1). 
Retrieved 10 September, 2006, 
from://www.opengroup.org/architecture/togaf/
  [9] Lankhorst, M. 
Enterprise Architecture at Work. 
Modelling, Communication, and Analysis
, Springer-
Verlag, Berlin, Germany, 2005. 

 
[10] Bernus, P., Nemes, L., and Schmidt, G. 

Handbook on Enterprise Architecture
, Springer-
Verlag, Berlin, Germany, 2003. 

 
[11] Fatolahi, A. and Shams, F. "An investigation 

into applying UML to the Zachman Framework," 

Information Systems Frontiers
 (8:2), 2006, pp. 133-
143. 

 
[12] IAC. "Advancing Enterprise Architecture 

Maturity, version 2.0," Industry Advisory Council, 

USA, 2005. 

 
[13] OMB. "Federal En
terprise Architecture Program EA Assessment Framework 2.0," OMB 

FEA Program Management Office, The Executive 

Office of the President, USA, 2005. 

 
[14] Schekkerman, J. 
The Economic Benefits of 
Enterprise Architecture
, Trafford, New Bern, USA, 
2005. 

 
[15] Ylimäki, T. "Towards a Generic Evaluation 

Model for Enterprise Architecture," 
Submitted to the 
Journal of Enterprise Architecture
, 2006. 
 
[16] Niemi, E. "Arch
itectural Work Status: 
Challenges and Developmental Potential - A Case 

Study of Three Finnish Business Enterprises," in 

Proceedings of the 6th WSEAS International 

Conference on Applied Computer Science (ACS'06)
, Puerto de la Cruz, Tenerife, Spain, 16-18 December, 

2006. 

 
[17] Kamogawa, T. and Okada, H. "A Framework 

for Enterprise Architecture Effectiveness," in 

Proceedings of the Second  International 

Conference on Services Systems and Services 

Management (ICSSSM '05)
, Chongqing, China, 13-
15 June, 2005. 

 
[18] Krueger, R. A. and Casey, M. A. 
Focus 
Groups. A Practical Guide for Applied Research
, Sage Publications, Inc., Thousand Oaks, USA, 2000. 

 
[19] Ross, J. and Weill, P. "Understanding the 

Benefits of Enterprise Architecture," 
CISR Research 
Briefings 2005
, Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, Cambridge, USA, 2005. 

 
[20] Aziz, S., et al. En
terprise Architecture: A 
Governance Framework - Part I: Embedding 

Architecture into the Organization. 
Retrieved 22 
-- First published in the Proceedings of the 7th IBIMA C
onference Internet & Information Systems in the Digital 
Age, 14-16 December, 20
06, Brescia, Italy -- 
 September, 2006, from://www.infosys.com/enterprise-
architecture/  
[21] Hoogervorst, J. "Enterprise Architecture: 

Enabling Integration, Agility and Change," 

International Journal of Cooperative Information 

Systems
 (13:3), 2004, pp. 213-233. 
 
[22] Tash, J. "What's the Value of EA?" 

Architecture & Governance magazine
 (2:2), 2006. 
 
[23] Malan, R. and Bredemeyer, D. "Enterprise 

Architecture as Strategic Differentiator," 
Enterprise 
Architecture Advisory Service Executive Report
, Cutter Consortium, Arlington, USA, 2005. 

 
[24] Hjort-Madsen, K. "Enterprise Architecture 

Implementation and Management: A Case Study on 

Interoperability," in 
Proceedings of the 39th Annual 
Hawaii International Conference on System 

Sciences (HICSS '06)
, Kauai, Hawaii, 4-7 January, 
2006. 

 
[25] Schekkerman, J. Trends in Enterprise 

Architecture 2005 - How are Organizations 

Progressing? Web-form Based Survey 2005. 
Retrieved August 15, 2006, from://www.enterprise-
architecture.info/Images/EA%20Survey/Enterprise%20Archi

tecture%20Survey%202005%20IFEAD%20v10.pdf
  
[26] Infosys. Infosys Enterprise Architecture Survey 

2005 Executive Summary. 
Retrieved 25 August, 2006, 
from://www.infosys.com/services/systemintegration/ea-

survey/ea-survey-executive-summary.pdf
  
[27] Giaglis, G., Mylonopoulos, N., and Doukidis, 

G. "The ISSUE methodology for quatifying benefits 

from information systems," 
Logistics Information 
Management
 (12:1/2), 1999, pp. 50-62. 
 
[28] Armour, F. J., Kaisler, S. H., and Liu, S. Y. "A 

Big-Picture Look at Enterprise Architectures," 
IT 
Professional (1:1), 1999, pp. 35-42. 
 
[29] CIO Council. "The Practical Guide to Federal 

Enterprise Architecture, version 1.0," Chief 

Information Officer Council, USA, 2001. 

 
[30] Computer Associates
. "Federal Enterprise 
Architecture: Realigning IT
 to Efficiently Achieve 
Agency Goals," 
Sponsored White Paper
, Computer 
Associates International,
 Herndon, USA, 2004. 
 
[31] Cullen, A. "Marketing EA's Value," 
Best 
Practices, Forrester Research, Cambridge, USA, 
2006. 

 [32] GAO. "Leadership Remains Key to Agencies 
Making Progress on Enterprise Architecture 

Efforts," General Accounting Office (GAO), USA, 

2003. 

 
[33] Hite, R. 
Agency EA Maturity: Are We Making 
Progress?
 General Accounting Office (GAO), USA, 
2003. 

 
[34] IT Governance Institute. 
Governance of the 
Extended Enterprise: Bridging Business and IT 

Strategies
, John Wiley & Sons, Hoboken, USA, 
2005. 

 
[35] Kluge, C., Dietzsch, A., and Rosemann, M. 

"How to Realize Corporat
e Value from Enterprise 
Architecture," in 
the Proceedings of the 14th 
European Conference on Information Systems (ECIS 

2006)
, Göteborg, Sweden, 12-14 June, 2006. 
 
[36] Morganwalp, J. and Sage, A. P. "A System of 

Systems Focused Enterprise Architecture 

Framework and an Associated Architecture 

Development Process," 
Information Knowledge 
Systems Management
 (3:2), 2003, pp. 87-105. 
 
[37] Riland, C. and Paterson, J. "Incremental 

Architecture: Principles from the Real World," 

Enterprise Architect
 (4:1), 2006. 
 
[38] Syntel. Evaluating Your Enterprise 

Architecture. 
Retrieved 22 August, 2006, 
from://www.syntelinc.com/uploadedfiles/Syntel_EvaluateEnt

erArchit.pdf.  [39] Syntel. A Global 
Vision for Enterprise 
Architecture. 
Retrieved 2 June, 2006, 
from://www.syntelinc.com/uploadedfiles/Syntel_GlobalVisio

nEnterArchit.pdf.  
[40] Van Grembergen, W. and Saull, R. "Aligning 

Business and Information Technology through the 

Balanced Scorecard at a Major Canadian Financial 

Group: its Status Measured with an IT BSC Maturity 

Model," in 
Proceedings of 
the 34th Hawaii 
International Conference on System Sciences 

(HICSS 2001)
, Maui, Hawaii, 2001. 
 
[41] Veasey, P. W. "Use of enterprise architectures 

in managing strategic change," 
Business Process 
Management Journal
 (7:5), 2001, pp. 420-436. 
 
[42] Whyte, M. "Enterpr
ise Architecture - The Key 
to Benefits Realization," 
DM Review White Paper
, DM Review, Brookfield, USA, 2005. 

 -- First published in the Proceedings of the 7th IBIMA C
onference Internet & Information Systems in the Digital 
Age, 14-16 December, 20
06, Brescia, Italy -- 
 [43] Boster, M., Liu, S., and Thomas, R. "Getting 
the Most from Your En
terprise Architecture," 
IT Professional (2:4), 2000, pp. 43-51. 
 
[44] Ylimäki, T. "Potential Critical Success Factors 

for Enterprise Architecture," 
Accepted to the Journal 
of Enterprise Architecture
, 2006. 
 
 
  