Architecture and his
 
concepts
 
 
Introduction
 
 
In current business practice, an integrated approach to business and IT is 
indispensable. As a real
-
life example, take the Dutch government, who are
 
currently undertaking a massive 
redesign of the entire chain of organisations 
involved in the social security system. Within this context, the collection of 

security organisation to the tax administration. This so
unds logical, since 
collecting taxes is superficially very similar to collecting social security 
premiums. However, this seemingly simple change entails a major redesign of 
organisational structures, business processes, IT applications, and technical 
infra
structure. Enormous flows of data need to be redirected within and among 
the different organisations: more than 600,000 payroll tax returns are filed 
each month, a large proportion of which arrive within a peak period of a 
couple of days.
 
Controlling such 

get to grips with this complex, multi
-
faceted world?
 
 
Architecture
 
 
It is often said that to manage the complexity of any large organisation or 
system, you need architecture. But what 

course, we have long known this notion from building and construction.
 
 
 
Suppose you contract an architect to des
ign your house. You discuss how 
rooms, staircases, windows, bathrooms, balco
nies, doors, a roof, etc., wil
l 
be 
put together. You agree on a master 
plan, on the basis of which the 
architect 
will produce detailed specificatio
ns, to be used by the engineers 
and builders.
 
 
How is it that you can communicate s
o efficiently about that master 
plan? We 
think it is bec
ause you share a common frame of refe
rence: you 
both know 

, etc. You know their 
function and 

xample, serves as a shelter and 
is connected to 

us
e, mentally, an architectural 
model of 
a house. This model defines its major functions and
 
how they are structured. It provides an abstract design, ignoring manydetails. 
These details, like the number of rooms, dimensions, materials to
 
be used, and 
colours
, will be filled in later.
 
A similar frame of reference is needed
 
in designing an enterprise. To 
create an 
overview of the structure of an organi
sation, its business processes, 
their 
application support, and the tec
hnical infrastructure, you need 
to expres
s the 
different aspects and domains, and their relations.
 

n in building and construction, 
the term 
is not without ambiguity. It can signify t
he art and science of designing 
the 
built environment, or the prod
uct of suc
h a design. Thus, the 
term architecture 
can encompass both the blueprint for a building and the
 

. 
There are different schools of thought on this. Some say we should reserve
 
the 

 
solely for such principles and 
constraints on the design space, as e.g. Di
etz argues (2006), who uses the 
term 

igns. In this book, we will use 
the IEEE 
1471
-
2000 / ISO/IEC 420
10:2007 (IEEE Computer Society
 
2000; see also Sect. 2.2.2) definition of architecture:
 
Architecture 
is the fundamental organisation of a system embodied in its 
components, their relationships to each
 
other, and to the environment, and the 
principle guiding its design and evolution.
 
 
This definition accommodates both the blueprint and the general principles. 

architecture pro
vides an integrated view of the system being designed or 
studied.
 
 
As well as the definition of architecture, we will use two other important 

 
 
Stakeholder
: an individual, team, o
r organisation (or classes thereof) with 
interests in, or concerns relative to, a system.
 
 
Most stakeholders of a system are probably not interested in its architecture, 
but only in the impact of this on their concerns. However, an architect needs to 
be aw
are of these concerns and discuss them with the stakeholders, and thus 
should be able to explain the architecture to all stakeholders involved, who 
will often have completely different backgrounds.
 
 
Enterprise Architecture
 
 
More and more, the notion of arc
hitecture is applied with a broader scope than 
just in the technical and IT domains. The emerging discipline of enterprise 
engineering views enterprises as a whole as purposefully designed systems 
that can be adapted and redesigned in a systematic and cont
rolled
 

Group 2009a):
 
 
Enterprise
: any collection of organisations that has a common set of goals 
and/or a single bottom line.
 
Architecture at the level of an entire organisation is commonly referred to
 

architecture:
 
 
Enterprise architecture
: a coherent whole of principles, methods, and 
models that are use

organisational structure, business processes, information systems and 
infrastructure.
 
 
Enterprise architecture captures the essentials of the business, IT and its 
evolution. The idea is that the essentials
 
are much more stable than the 
specific solutions that are found for the problems currently at hand. 
Architecture is therefore helpful in guarding the essentials of the business, 
while
 
still allowing for maximal flexibility and adaptivity. Without good 
arc
hitecture,
 
it is difficult to achieve business success.
 
 
The most important characteristic of an enterprise architecture is that it 
provides a holistic view of the enterprise. Within individual domains local 
optimisation will take place and from a reductio
nistic point of view, the 
architectures within this domain may be optimal. However, this need not lead 
to a desired situation for the company as a whole. For example, a highly 
optimised technical infrastructure that offers great performance at ow cost 
migh
t turn out to be too rigid and inflexible if it needs to support highly agile 
and rapidly changing business processes. A good enterprise architecture 
provides the insight needed to balance these requirements and acilitates the 
translation from corporate st
rategy to daily operations.
 
 
To achieve this quality in enterprise architecture, bringing together 
information from formerly unrelated domains necessitates an approach that is 
understood by all those involved from these
 
different domains. In contrast to 
building architecture, which has a history over millennia in which a
 
common language and culture has been established, such a shared frame of 
reference is still lacking in business and IT. In current practice, architectur
e 
descriptions are heterogeneous in nature: each domain has its own description 
techniques, either textual or graphical, either informal or with a
 
precise meaning. Different fields speak their own languages, draw their own 
models, and use their own techniq
ues and tools. Communication and decision 
making across these domains is seriously impaired.
 
 
What is part of the enterprise architecture, and what is only an implementation 
within that architecture, is a matter of what the business defines to be the 
archi
tecture, and what not. The architecture marks the separation between 
what should not be tampered with and what can be filled in more freely. This 
places a high demand for quality on the architecture. Quality means that the 
architecture actually helps in ac
hieving essential business objectives. In 
constructing and maintaining architecture, choices should therefore be related 
to the business objectives, i.e., they should be rational
 
