Enterprise Architecture: Bu
siness and IT Alignment Carla Marques Pereira 
carla.pereira@link.pt 
  Pedro Sousa 
pedro.sousa@link.pt 
Link Consulting SA & IST/DEI 
Av. Rovisco Pais, 1049-001 Lisboa, Portugal. 
ABSTRACT 
Organizations have existing systems infrastructure that are the 
result of decades of one-by-one implementations of specific 
solutions. As organizations, products, customers and technologies 

continue to change at an increasingly rapid rate, managers have 

sought overviews that will allow them to understand how Business 
and IT within their organization fits together. Enterprise 
Architecture is a representation of the organization to enable the 

planning of the organization changes. It includes the current and 

future business objectives, goals, visions, strategies, informational 
entities, business processes, people, organization structures, 
application systems, technological infrastructures, and so on. 

In this paper, we show how the alignment between Business and 

IT can be disaggregated into four different dimensions and we 
present some heuristics to ensure such alignment. 
Keywords 
Enterprise Architecture, Alignment, Alignment Heuristics. 
1. INTRODUCTION 
The alignment between Business and Information Systems is a 
key issue in every organization, given the impact it has in the 

overall organization. The need for repeated data insertions in 
different systems, the effort required to keep multiple replicas of 

the same information coherency and the lack of business 

information are common examples of such misalignment. 
The concept of alignment is based on ideas commonly used in 
the Enterprise Architecture Frameworks (EAFs) [4, 7, 8, 9], where 

organization Business and IT are drawn. However, even though 

business and IT are commonly understood concepts, they are 
addressed differently in different frameworks. Therefore, in this 
work we try to express business and IT alignment in terms of well 

understood components, found in most EAFs, namely Business, 

Information, Application and Technology  Architectures. 
2. ARCHITECTURAL COMPONENTS 
ALIGNMENT 
Although a formal definition of the alignments™ concept is an on 
going work, we all face evidences of misalignments in everyday 

live. The concept firstly appeared in the 1970™s [2, 3, 5] and its 

relevancy and actuality is unquestionable, given the level of 

dissatisfaction that exists in or
ganizations regarding to their 
information systems.  
We define Alignment among Business, Systems and Information 
as a way to quantify the coherency level in relation to the business 
necessity, the systems offer and information management [6].  
Attending to this definition, our understanding about alignment 
is the result of these possible misalignments: (1) between Business 
Process (BP) and Information; (2) between BP and Applications; 
(3) between Applications and Information; (4) between IT and 
Information; and (5) between Applications and IT. The scope of 
this work does not include IT architecture and emphasizes the first 
three alignments.  
Therefore, alignment between Business Architecture (BA) and 
Application Architecture (AA) is a concern with the automation of 
work that employees actually need to do to use applications that 
run the business, for example: insert the same data in several 

systems; logging in several applications that support the same 

business process; and manually tr
ansform and process reports and 
data that are produced by the application systems. 
A measure of such misalignment would be the time/effort 
business employees spend doing the work required for the use of 

the application systems. All work that has no direct link to 
business and it is only justified to interface with the Applications 
infrastructure is an evidence of misalignment between BA and AA. 

Let us give a parallel example with the purpose driving the car. 

The business purpose would be to move forward/backwards at a 
given speed, break and so on. In this sense, manual gears are less 
aligned than automatic gears, because it requires more work for the 

driver to use the car, with no impact on the business goals. An 

example of misalignment between BA and AA is when, each time, 
an employee is admitted in the organization and business people 
have to register him/her in several application systems. BA and AA 

alignment is most related with BP automation.  
Alignment between AA and (Information Architecture) IA is 
mostly about the effort IT people spend to provide necessary 

information for applications and business operations running. It is 

a well known fact that the same information (example, customer 

address) is replicated several times in organization systems and 
that a significant portion of IT budget goes to maintain the 

code/procedures that keep replicas coherent and updated. 
An ERP System (Enterprise Resource Planning) is a good 
example of AA and AI alignment. By having a single database, 
ERPs do achieve a highly aligned Application and Information 
Architectures because there are no information replicas within the 
ERP to keep it coherent and updated. However, this does not mean 
that ERP Workflows are aligned with the business processes.  
Using the employee admission example, examples of 
misalignment between Application 
Information Architectures is 
the time IT people spend on: 
 Running synchronization programs for updating the 
employee lists among different applications; 
 Dealing with eventual errors during the synchronization 
process; 
 Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work fo
rpersonal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are
not
 made or distributed for
 profit or commercial advantage 
and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. To copy otherwise, o
rrepublish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior 
specific permission and/or a fee. 
SAC™05, March 13Œ17, 2005, Santa Fe, NM, USA. Copyright 2005 ACM 1-58113-964-0/05/0003–$5.00. 13442005 ACM Symposium on Applied Computing Updating and maintaining the batch programs when new 
fields are necessary or when new applications are involved 
in the management of the list.  
Alignment between BA and IA is constant concern with 
providing information required to perform non-automated actions: 
 Implicit decisions in business processes; 
 Controlling and managing the business; 
 Decision making.  
In a well aligned BA and IA, business managers spend no time 
searching for information that their systems could provide. An 
example of misalignment between BA and IA is when the client 
has to ask the supplier for things he is buying. 
2.1 Alignment Heuristics 
We have been using alignment heuristics as rules for achieving 
architectures™ alignment. In most cases, heuristics are no more than 
an alert to a situation that requires further analyses and 
justification. For example, a process that is performed without 
accessing to any information entity or an information entity that is 
never created. In this section we li
st a set of heuristics that have 
been helping us to diagnosis the 
state of alignmen
t, identifying 
several factors that represent most of the cases of misalignment. 
2.1.1
 Alignment between Business Architecture and 
Information Architecture 
In this paper, alignment between BA and IA is restricted to the 
relationships between business processes and informational 
entities. 
Information Entities must have a way of identification (from a 
business perspective), a description and a set of attributes. 
Attributes are related to business processes and to application 
systems.  
The Heuristics to apply to this alignment are: 
 All processes create, update and/or delete at least one entity; 
 All entities attributes are read at least by one process; 
 All processes assume the same entity description. This 
means that there is a single interpretation of the entity. 
2.1.2
 Alignment between Business Architecture and 
Application Architecture 
In the alignment between BA and AA, we are restricted to the 
relationships between business processes and application systems. 
Application properties are classified as availability (up time), 
scalability (ability to scale up performance), profile based accesses 
(ability to identify who does each task).  
The heuristics to apply to this alignment are: 
 Each business process should be supported by at least one 
application system; 
 Business process tasks should be supported by a single 
application; 
 Critical business process should depend on scalable and 
available applications; 
 Each application system functionality should support at least 
one business process task. 
2.1.3
 Alignment between Application Architecture and 
Information Architecture 
Alignment between AA and IA deals with the relationships 
between application systems and informational entities.  
When applications use information entities, the attributes should 
be classified as security (public, private, confidential). Information 
Entities must have identification. 
The heuristics to apply to this alignment are: 
 An entity is managed by only one application. Managed 
means create, assign and have identification. Other 
applications may update entities fields; 
 If an information entity™s ID is recovered, then the 
corresponding information entity should be created and 

deleted by the same computational process; 
 The data management should be automatic among the 
application systems; 
 Private entities should depend on restricted access 
applications; 
 Confidential entities should depend on restricted access 
applications; 
 The rate of updates should be correlated with rate of reads. 
3. FURTHER RESEARCH 
The Alignment Heuristics has the goal of providing a measure to 
better formulate, understand, analyze and evaluate an organization 

from the Information Systems point of view and for that we use 

the Enterprise Architecture™s concepts. We use it to achieve a 
superior alignment between business and IS, however, due to the 
constant changes in organization, business and technology, 

ensuring alignment must be perceived as a process not a static 

result. This dynamic aspect of the work is an issue to future 
research. In current research is not intentionally present in this 
work the alignment among TA and the other architectures, in 

which our approach to the IT issue follows the SOA paradigm. 
It is also our aim in future research to have a cross view among 
some of the key issues that support the alignment, such as: list of 
evidences of misalignment; questions on specific roles in the 

targeted organization which answers reveal the nature and status of 

alignment [1]; and, of course, alignment heuristics. 
4. REFERENCES 
1. Ambler, Scott W., Agile Enterprise Architecture: Beyond 
Enterprise Data Modeling, 2002, 

http://www.agiledata.org/essays/enterpriseArchitecture.html 
2. Henderson, J.C. and N. Venkatr
aman, Strategic Alignment: 
Leveraging Information Technology for Transforming 
Organizations, IBM Systems 
Journal, 32, 4-16, 1993 
3. Luftman, J.N., P.R. Lewis and S.H. Oldach, Transforming the 
Enterprise: The Alignment of Business and Information 
Technology Strategies, IBM Systems Journal, 32, 198-221, 
1993 4. Macaulay, Andrew, Enterprise Architecture Design and the 
Integrated Architecture Framework, Microsoft Architects 

Journal, January 2004  
5. Niederman, Fred, Brancheau, James C. and Wetherbe, James 
C., Information Systemns Management Issues for the 1990s, 
MIS Quartely, Volume 14, Number 4, December 1991 
6. Pereira, Carla Marques and Sousa, Pedro, Getting into the 
misalignment between Business and Information Systems, 
The 10th European Conference on Information Technology 
Evaluation, Madrid, Spain, September 2003 
7. Swoa, J. F and Zachman , J. A., Extending and formalizing 
the framework for information systems architecture, IBM 

Systems Journal, Volume 31, Number 3, 1992 
8. http://www.opengroup.org/arch
itecture/togaf8-doc/arch/ 
9. Zachman , John A., A Framework for Information Systems 
Architecture, IBM Systems Jour
nal, Volume 26, Number 3, 
1987 1345View publication statsView publication stats