Human
-
Computer Interaction: Definition, Terminology 
 
 
The rapid growth of computing has made effective human
-
computer 
interaction essential. HCI (human
-
computer interaction) is the study of how 
people interact with computers and to what extent computers 
are or are not 
developed for successful interaction with human beings. Utilizing computers 
had always begged the question of interfacing. The methods by which human 
has been interacting with computers has travelled a long way. The journey 
still continues a
nd new designs of technologies and systems appear more and 
more every day and the research in this area has been growing very fast in 
the last few decades. The growth in Human Computer Interaction (HCI) field 
has not only been in quality of interaction, it
 
has also experienced different 
branching in its history. Instead of designing regular interfaces, the different 
research branches have had different focus on the concepts of multimodality 
rather than unimodality, intelligent adaptive interfaces rather tha
n 
command/action based ones, and finally active rather than passive interfaces 
[66]. Gustav Evertsson describes Human Computer Interaction is about 
designing computer systems so the user can carry out their activities 
productively and safely. It is not how
 
easy something is to use, it is about 

Interaction is a discipline concerned with the design, evaluation and 
implementation of interactive computer systems for human use and with the 
stu

variety of different kind of people and not just technical specialists as in the 
past, so it is important to design HCI that supports the needs, knowledge and 

[36][13]. As its name implies, HCI consists of 
three parts: the user, the computer itself, and the ways they work together. 
User: By "user", we may mean an individual user or a group of users working 
together. An appreciation of the way people's sensory sy
stems (sight, 
hearing, touch) relay information is vital. Also, different users form different 
conceptions or mental models about their interactions and have different 
ways of learning and keeping knowledge. In addition, cultural and national 
differences p
lay an important part. Computer: When we talk about the 
computer, we're referring to any technology ranging from desktop 
computers, to large scale computer systems. For example, if we were 
discussing the design of a Website, then the Website itself would b
e referred 
to as "the computer". Devices such as mobile phones or VCRs can also be 

between humans and machines. In spite of these, HCI attempts to ensure 
that they both get on with ea
ch other and interact successfully. In order to 
achieve a usable system, you need to apply what you know about humans 
and computers, and consult with likely users throughout the design process. 
In real systems, the schedule and the budget are important, an
d it is vital to 
find a balance between what would be ideal for the users and what is 
feasible in reality [13]. Human
-
Computer Interaction studies how people 
design, implement and use computer interfaces [31]. HCI has become an 
umbrela term for a number of
 
disciplines including theories of education, 
psychology, collaboration as well as efficiency and ergonomics [32].
 
Recent developments in the area of HCI have shown an interest in adaptive 
interfaces, speech recognition, gestures and the role of time [33] 
[34] [35] 
[1]. 5 Having these concepts in mind and considering that the terms 
computer, machine and system are often used interchangeably. In this 
context, HCI is a design that should produce a fit between the user, the 
machine and the required services in
 
order to achieve a certain performance 
both in quality and optimality of the services [61]. Determining what makes a 
certain HCI design good is mostly subjective and context dependant. For 
example, an aircraft part designing tool should provide high preci
sions in 
view and design of the parts while a graphics editing software may not need 
such a precision. The available technology could also affect how different 
types of HCI are designed for the same purpose. One example is using 
commands, menus, graphical 
user interfaces (GUI), or virtual reality to access 
functionalities of any given computer [66]
 
 
